{
    "Title": "Magnetic Force",
    "Abstract": "",
    "Parents": ["Magnetic Drives"],
    "Children": ["Fundamental Forces", "Electrons Spin"],
    "Date": "2020-06-01"
}

# Magnetic Force

The magnetic force is the force generated by either:

* a charged moving particle
* a chuck of matter than has special properties, called a permanent magnet

## Moving charges

When a charge is moving, it generates a magnetic force on other particles, that is proportional to its electric charge and speed. 

## Permanent magnets and spins

A permanent magnet is a material that generates a static magnetic field `B`. These types of materials are called ferromagnetic materials and can actually be _magnetized_ (by applying a large magnetic field on them) to become permanent magnets. 

The **spin** of particles is responsible for the magnetic orientation of atoms. In most materials, these magnetic orientations are ordered randomly such that the resulting magnetic orientation of the material is zero. In ferromagnetic materials, the magnetic orientation of the atoms have a tendency to align with neighboring atoms. In such a case, it creates regions inside the material where the magnetic orientation is aligned. Applying a large magnetic field to these matter will cause the regions to align with each other so that the total magnetic orientation of a material is aligned to form a permanent magnet.

In summary, a ferro-magnetic material:

* can be _magnetized_ in order to create a permanent magnet -- a material that creates a permanent static magnetic field. 
* can be modified so that its magnetic orientation changes by applying a large magnetic field. 

This allows to encode information into ferromagnetic pieces by changing the magnetic orientation / probing the magnetic field of each ferromagnetic piece.
